---
title: "ECG-ATK-GAN: Robustness against Adversarial Attacks on ECGs using Conditional Generative Adversarial Networks"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/AMAI2022
venue: "Applications of Medical AI (AMAI) at MICCAI 2022"
date: 2022-09-30
citation: '<b>Khondker Fariha Hossain</b>, Sharif Amit Kamran, Alireza Tavakkoli, Xingjun Ma'
---
[[Springer]](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-031-17721-7_8)[[Arxiv]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2110.09983)

## Abstract
Automating arrhythmia detection from ECG requires a robust and trusted system that retains high accuracy under electrical disturbances. Many machine learning approaches have reached human-level performance in classifying arrhythmia from ECGs. However, these architectures are vulnerable to adversarial attacks, which can misclassify ECG signals by decreasing the model's accuracy. Adversarial attacks are small crafted perturbations injected in the original data which manifest the out-of-distribution shifts in signal to misclassify the correct class. Thus, security concerns arise for false hospitalization and insurance fraud abusing these perturbations. To mitigate this problem, we introduce the first novel Conditional Generative Adversarial Network (GAN), robust against adversarial attacked ECG signals and retaining high accuracy. Our architecture integrates a new class-weighted objective function for adversarial perturbation identification and new blocks for discerning and combining out-of-distribution shifts in signals in the learning process for accurately classifying various arrhythmia types. Furthermore, we benchmark our architecture on six different white and black-box attacks and compare them with other recently proposed arrhythmia classification models on two publicly available ECG arrhythmia datasets. The experiment confirms that our model is more robust against such adversarial attacks for classifying arrhythmia with high accuracy. 